Document how to use OIDC authentication (#967)
kubeapps/kubeapps: docs/user/using-an-OIDC-provider.md

        - --resources=uri=/api/kube/*|white-listed=true
        - --listen=0.0.0.0:3000
        image: keycloak/keycloak-gatekeeper
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        name: kubeapps-auth-proxy
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  labels:
    name: kubeapps-auth-proxy
  name: kubeapps-auth-proxy
spec:
  ports:
  - name: http
    port: 3000
    protocol: TCP
    targetPort: 3000
  selector:
    name: kubeapps-auth-proxy
  sessionAffinity: None
  type: ClusterIP
EOF
```

The above is a sample deployment, depending on the configuration of the Identity Provider those flags may vary. For this example we use:

- `--client-id`, `--client-secret` and `--discovery-url`: Client ID, Secret and IdP URL as stated in the section above.
- `--upstream-url`: Internal URL for the `kubeapps` service.
- `--resources=uri=/api/kube/*|white-listed=true`: This setting enables WebSockets to work correctly, which Kubeapps relies on to show up-to-date information. Kubeapps handles the injection of the OIDC token into every Kubernetes API request, so it is not necessary for Keycloak Gatekeeper to do it.
- `listen=0.0.0.0:3000`: Listen in all the interfaces.

> **NOTE**: If the identity provider is deployed with a self-signed certificate (which may be the case for Keycloak or Dex) you will need to disable the TLS and cookie verification. For doing so you can add the flags `--skip-openid-provider-tls-verify` and `--secure-cookie=false` to the deployment above. You can find more options for the `keycloak-gatekeeper` proxy [here](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/securing_apps/index.html#_keycloak_generic_adapter).

Reviewer: great, thanks 👍

```
kubectl create -n $KUBEAPPS_NAMESPACE -f - -o yaml << EOF
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  annotations:
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/connection-proxy-header: keep-alive
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/proxy-read-timeout: "600"
  name: kubeapps
spec:
  rules:
  - host: kubeapps.local
    http:
      paths:
      - backend:
          serviceName: kubeapps-auth-proxy
          servicePort: 3000
        path: /
EOF
```

Once you create the ingress rule and you access the proxy, you will be redirected to your IdP. There, you will be prompted to introduce your credentials:

![Proxy Login](../img/auth-proxy-login.png)

> After successfully introduce the credentials, you will be finally redirected to Kubeapps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After successfully logging in with your IdP, you will be redirected to Kubeapps and be authenticated with your user's OIDC token.
```

# Using an OIDC Provider with Kubeapps

> OpenID Connect (OIDC) is a simple identity layer on top of the OAuth 2.0 protocol, which allows computing clients to verify the identity of an end-user based on the authentication performed by an authorization server, as well as to obtain basic profile information about the end-user.

Reviewer: computing clients?

Author: simplified to `clients`

> OpenID Connect (OIDC) is a simple identity layer on top of the OAuth 2.0 protocol, which allows computing clients to verify the identity of an end-user based on the authentication performed by an authorization server, as well as to obtain basic profile information about the end-user.

Reviewer: simpler:
an end-user -> a user

It is possible to configure your Kubernetes cluster to use an OIDC provider in order to manage accounts, groups and roles with a single application. This guide will explain how you can use an existing OIDC provider to authenticate users within Kubeapps.

## Pre-requisites

> For this guide we assume that you have a Kubernetes cluster that is properly configured to use an Identity Provider to handle the authorization of your cluster. You can find more information about how Kubernetes uses OIDC tokens [here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#openid-connect-tokens). This means that the Kubernetes API server should be configured to use that OIDC provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this guide we assume that you have a Kubernetes cluster that is properly configured to use an Identity Provider (IdP) to handle the authorization of your cluster. You can find more information about how Kubernetes uses OIDC tokens [here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#openid-connect-tokens). This means that the Kubernetes API server should be configured to use that OIDC provider.
```

since we use the shorthand below, it's good to point it out here

There are several Identity Providers (IdP) that can be used in a Kubernetes cluster. The steps of this guide have been validated using the following providers:

- [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/): Open Source Identity and Access Management.
- [Dex](https://github.com/dexidp/dex): Open Source OIDC and OAuth 2.0 Provider with Pluggable Connectors.
- [Azure Active Directory](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-whatis): Identity Provider that can be used for AKS.
- [Google OpenID Connect](https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/OpenIDConnect): OAuth 2.0 for Google accounts.

For Kubeapps to use an Identity Provider it's necessary to configure at least the following parameters:

- Client ID: Client ID of the IdP.
- Client Secret: (If configured) Secret used to validate the Client ID.
- OIDC Issuer URL (or discovery URL): URL of the OIDC issuer.

**Note**: Depending on the configuration of the Identity Provider more parameters may be needed.

> In the next sections we will explain how you can find the parameters above for some of the identity providers tested.

Reviewer: Is this necessary? We're assuming they've already configured their Kubernetes clusters correctly, and so should already know these values.

First we will create a Kubernetes deployment and service for the proxy. For the snippet below, you need to set the environment variables `AUTH_PROXY_CLIENT_ID`, `AUTH_PROXY_CLIENT_SECRET` and `AUTH_PROXY_DISCOVERY_URL` with the information from the IdP and `KUBEAPPS_NAMESPACE`.

```
export AUTH_PROXY_CLIENT_ID=<ID>
export AUTH_PROXY_CLIENT_SECRET=<SECRET>
export AUTH_PROXY_DISCOVERY_URL=<URL>
kubectl create -n $KUBEAPPS_NAMESPACE -f - -o yaml << EOF
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  labels:
    name: kubeapps-auth-proxy
  name: kubeapps-auth-proxy
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      name: kubeapps-auth-proxy
  strategy:
    rollingUpdate:
      maxSurge: 1
      maxUnavailable: 1
    type: RollingUpdate
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        name: kubeapps-auth-proxy
    spec:
      containers:
      - args:
        - --client-id=$AUTH_PROXY_CLIENT_ID
        - --client-secret=$AUTH_PROXY_CLIENT_SECRET
        - --discovery-url=$AUTH_PROXY_DISCOVERY_URL

>         - --skip-openid-provider-tls-verify

Reviewer: Likewise as below, let's not optimise for non-production environments.

Author: (replied in the comment below)

>         - --secure-cookie=false

Reviewer: I guess, by default, this should be true?

        - --upstream-url=http://kubeapps/
        - --resources=uri=/api/kube/*|white-listed=true
        - --listen=0.0.0.0:3000
        image: keycloak/keycloak-gatekeeper
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        name: kubeapps-auth-proxy
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  labels:
    name: kubeapps-auth-proxy
  name: kubeapps-auth-proxy
spec:
  ports:
  - name: http
    port: 3000
    protocol: TCP
    targetPort: 3000
  selector:
    name: kubeapps-auth-proxy
  sessionAffinity: None
  type: ClusterIP
EOF
```

The above is a sample deployment, depending on the configuration of the Identity Provider those flags may vary. For this example we use:

- `--client-id`, `--client-secret` and `--discovery-url`: Client ID, Secret and IdP URL as stated in the section above.

> - `--skip-openid-provider-tls-verify`, `--secure-cookie=false`: If the `discovery-url` is served through HTTPS with a self-signed certificate (i.e. Keycloak or Dex), those flags are necessary to avoid errors while validating the TLS certificate.

Reviewer: I don't think this is important enough for us to mention, we can point to the Keycloak gatekeeper docs for more configuration options.

Reviewer: > Do you mean that you wouldn't show the explanation of these 2 flags or all the flags?

These two flags.

> It's true that we should not include it by default though so I will move the explanation of these flags to a note.

That sounds okay, but honestly the less we document the better, it's less work to maintain. We could just as easily point to the keycloak-gateway docs and hopefully someone finds it there.

- `--upstream-url`: Internal URL for the `kubeapps` service.

> - `--resources=uri=/api/kube/*|white-listed=true`: In order to use WebSockets we need to bypass the authentication for those request. In that case, Kubeapps will inject the `Bearer` token manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--resources=uri=/api/kube/*|white-listed=true`: This setting enables WebSockets to work correctly, which Kubeapps relies on to show up-to-date information. Kubeapps handles the injection of the OIDC token into every Kubernetes API request, so it is not necessary for Keycloak Gatekeeper to do it.
```

- `listen=0.0.0.0:3000`: Listen in all the interfaces.

## Exposing the proxy

> Once the proxy is in place and it's able to connect to the IdP we will need to expose it to access it as the main endpoint for Kubeapps (instead of the `kubeapps` service). We can do that with an Ingress object. Note that for doing so an [Ingress Controller](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#ingress-controllers) is needed. There are also other methods to expose the `kubeapps-auth-proxy` service, for example using `LoadBalancer` as type in a cloud environment. In case an Ingress is used, remember to modify the host `kubeapps.local` for the value that you want to use as hostname for your application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the proxy is in place and it's able to connect to the IdP we will need to expose it to access it as the main endpoint for Kubeapps (instead of the `kubeapps` service). We can do that with an Ingress object. Note that for doing so an [Ingress Controller](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#ingress-controllers) is needed. There are also other methods to expose the `kubeapps-auth-proxy` service, for example using `LoadBalancer` as type in a cloud environment. In case an Ingress is used, remember to modify the host `kubeapps.local` for the value that you want to use as a hostname for Kubeapps:
```

```
kubectl create -n $KUBEAPPS_NAMESPACE -f - -o yaml << EOF
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  annotations:
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/connection-proxy-header: keep-alive
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/proxy-read-timeout: "600"
  name: kubeapps
spec:
  rules:
  - host: kubeapps.local
    http:
      paths:
      - backend:
          serviceName: kubeapps-auth-proxy
          servicePort: 3000
        path: /
EOF
```

> Once you do that you can access the application, you will be prompted to introduce your credentials:

Reviewer: I would make this more clear by saying something like, once you access the proxy you will be redirected to login with your Identity Provider. Once successfully logged in, you will be redirected to Kubeapps.
